Edit Using OpenID Connect (OIDC) multitenancy (#37584)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-openid-connect-multitenancy.adoc

and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Using OpenID Connect (OIDC) multitenancy
include::_attributes.adoc[]
:diataxis-type: howto
:categories: security
:keywords: sso oidc oauth2 security
:topics: security,oidc,multitenancy
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-oidc

> This guide demonstrates how your OpenID Connect (OIDC) application can support multitenancy so that you can serve multiple tenants from a single application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrates how your OpenID Connect (OIDC) application can support multitenancy to serve multiple tenants from a single application.
```

Author: Nice optimization. Thanks.

> These tenants can have distinct realms or security domains within the same OIDC provider, or even distinct OIDC providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These tenants can have distinct realms or security domains within the same OIDC provider or even distinct OIDC providers.
```

> When serving multiple customers from the same application, such as in a SaaS environment, each customer functions as a distinct tenant. By enabling multitenancy support to your applications, you can support distinct authentication policies for each tenant, even authenticating against different OIDC providers, such as Keycloak and Google.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each customer functions as a distinct tenant when serving multiple customers from the same application, such as in a SaaS environment.
By enabling multitenancy support to your applications, you can support distinct authentication policies for each tenant, even authenticating against different OIDC providers, such as Keycloak and Google.
```

To authorize a tenant by using Bearer Token Authorization, see the xref:security-oidc-bearer-token-authentication.adoc[OpenID Connect (OIDC) Bearer token authentication] guide.

To authenticate and authorize a tenant by using the OIDC authorization code flow, read the xref:security-oidc-code-flow-authentication.adoc[OpenID Connect authorization code flow mechanism for protecting web applications] guide.

> Also see the xref:security-oidc-configuration-properties-reference.adoc[OpenID Connect (OIDC) configuration properties] reference guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, see the xref:security-oidc-configuration-properties-reference.adoc[OpenID Connect (OIDC) configuration properties] reference guide.
```

and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Using OpenID Connect (OIDC) multitenancy
include::_attributes.adoc[]
:diataxis-type: howto
:categories: security
:keywords: sso oidc oauth2 security
:topics: security,oidc,multitenancy
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-oidc

This guide demonstrates how your OpenID Connect (OIDC) application can support multitenancy to serve multiple tenants from a single application.

> These tenants can have distinct realms or security domains within the same OIDC provider or even distinct OIDC providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These tenants can be distinct realms or security domains within the same OIDC provider or even distinct OIDC providers.
```

Author: Thank you. Updated.

== Writing the application

> Start by implementing the `/{tenant}` endpoint. As you can see from the source code below, it is just a regular Jakarta REST resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by implementing the `/{tenant}` endpoint.
As you can see from the source code below, it is just a regular Jakarta REST resource:
```

}
----

In the preceding implementation, tenants are resolved from the request path. If no tenant can be inferred, `null` is returned to indicate that the default tenant configuration should be used.

The `tenant-a` application type is `hybrid`; it can accept HTTP bearer tokens if provided. Otherwise, it initiates an authorization code flow when authentication is required.

== Configuring the application

[source,properties]
----
# Default tenant configuration
%prod.quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url=http://localhost:8180/realms/quarkus
quarkus.oidc.client-id=multi-tenant-client
quarkus.oidc.application-type=web-app

# Tenant A configuration is created dynamically in CustomTenantConfigResolver

# HTTP security configuration
quarkus.http.auth.permission.authenticated.paths=/*
quarkus.http.auth.permission.authenticated.policy=authenticated
----

> The first configuration is the default tenant configuration that should be used when the tenant cannot be inferred from the request. Be aware that a `%prod` profile prefix is used with `quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url` to support testing a multitenant application with Dev Services For Keycloak. This configuration uses a Keycloak instance to authenticate users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first configuration is the default tenant configuration that should be used when the tenant cannot be inferred from the request.
Be aware that a `%prod` profile prefix is used with `quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url` to support testing a multitenant application with Dev Services For Keycloak.
This configuration uses a Keycloak instance to authenticate users.
```

The second configuration, provided by `TenantConfigResolver`, is used when an incoming request is mapped to the `tenant-a` tenant.

Both configurations map to the same Keycloak server instance while using distinct `realms`.

Alternatively, you can configure the tenant `tenant-a` directly in `application.properties`:

[source,properties]
----
# Default tenant configuration
%prod.quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url=http://localhost:8180/realms/quarkus
quarkus.oidc.client-id=multi-tenant-client
quarkus.oidc.application-type=web-app

# Tenant A configuration
quarkus.oidc.tenant-a.auth-server-url=http://localhost:8180/realms/tenant-a
quarkus.oidc.tenant-a.client-id=multi-tenant-client
quarkus.oidc.tenant-a.application-type=web-app

# HTTP security configuration
quarkus.http.auth.permission.authenticated.paths=/*
quarkus.http.auth.permission.authenticated.policy=authenticated
----

> And use a custom `TenantConfigResolver` to resolve it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a custom `TenantConfigResolver` to resolve it:
```

Author: Updated. Thank you.

}
----

You can define multiple tenants in your configuration file. To map them correctly when resolving a tenant from your `TenantResolver` implementation, ensure each has a unique alias.

> However, using a static tenant resolution method, such as configuring tenants in `application.properties` and resolving them with `TenantResolver`, presents limitations. This approach is incompatible with testing the endpoint with Dev Services For Keycloak. The reason is that Dev Services For Keycloak has no knowledge of how requests are mapped to individual tenants. Therefore, it cannot dynamically provide tenant-specific `quarkus.oidc.<tenant-id>.auth-server-url` values. As a result, using `%prod` prefixes with the tenant-specific URLs in `application.properties` is ineffective in tests or development mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, using a static tenant resolution method, such as configuring tenants in `application.properties` and resolving them with `TenantResolver`, presents limitations.
This approach is incompatible with testing the endpoint with Dev Services For Keycloak. The reason is that Dev Services For Keycloak needs to learn how requests are mapped to individual tenants.
Therefore, it cannot dynamically provide tenant-specific `quarkus.oidc.<tenant-id>.auth-server-url` values.
As a result, using `%prod` prefixes with the tenant-specific URLs in `application.properties` is ineffective in tests or development mode.
```

[NOTE]
====
When a current tenant represents an OIDC `web-app` application, the current `io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext` contains a `tenant-id` attribute by the time the custom tenant resolver has been called for all the requests completing the code authentication flow and the already authenticated requests, when either a tenant-specific state or session cookie already exists.
Therefore, when working with multiple OIDC providers, you only need a path-specific check to resolve a tenant ID if the `RoutingContext` does not have the `tenant-id` attribute set, for example:

// When dealing with an OIDC `web-app` application as the current tenant, the process involves specific attributes and contexts. In this scenario, the `io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext` of the current tenant contains a `tenant-id` attribute. This inclusion occurs by the time the custom tenant resolver is called. It applies to all requests that complete the code authentication flow and to already authenticated requests. This authentication is recognized when a tenant-specific state or session cookie already exists.
//

> // Therefore, when working with multiple OIDC providers, resolving a tenant ID requires careful consideration. Specifically, a path-specific check becomes necessary only if the `RoutingContext` lacks the `tenant-id` attribute. For example:

Author: @sberyozkin I revised lines 277-278 to break the original complex sentences into shorter, clearer sentences. Each new sentence introduces a specific step or concept, enhancing readability and comprehension, in line with effective technical writing practices. 

However, I want to make sure I have preserved the intended meaning. If you approve this revision. I will remove lines 277-278 and uncomment 280-282.

Reviewer 2: @rolfedh Thanks for giving it try, I'm not sure though rewriting the 1st sentence does not change the meaning, let me try to compare. The current sentence: 

```
When a current tenant represents an OIDC `web-app` application, the current `io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext` contains a `tenant-id` attribute by the time the custom tenant resolver has been called for all the requests completing the code authentication flow and the already authenticated requests, when either a tenant-specific state or session cookie already exists.
```

With `When a current tenant represents an OIDC web-app application` I'm trying to say that a configuration for the OIDC `web-app` exists that matches the current tenant. It feels that `When dealing with an OIDC web-app application as the current tenant` does not quite work.

With `the current io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext contains a `tenant-id` attribute` I try to say  `the current request's  io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext` so `io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext` of the current tenant` does not quite work either.

Also, IMHO, `the process involves specific attributes and contexts` addition is OK but reads a little bit technical.

Thanks

Author: To expedite this PR, I've removed my comment/suggestion:
```
// When dealing with an OIDC `web-app` application as the current tenant, the process involves specific attributes and contexts.
// In this scenario, the `io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext` of the current tenant contains a `tenant-id` attribute.
// This inclusion occurs by the time the custom tenant resolver is called.
// It applies to all requests that complete the code authentication flow and to already authenticated requests.
// This authentication is recognized when a tenant-specific state or session cookie already exists.
//
// Therefore, when working with multiple OIDC providers, resolving a tenant ID requires careful consideration.
// Specifically, a path-specific check becomes necessary only if the `RoutingContext` lacks the `tenant-id` attribute.
// For example:
```

Author: If you have the time, please suggest revisions to make following passage easier to understand. 
```
When a current tenant represents an OIDC `web-app` application, the current `io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext` contains a `tenant-id` attribute by the time the custom tenant resolver has been called for all the requests completing the code authentication flow and the already authenticated requests, when either a tenant-specific state or session cookie already exists.
Therefore, when working with multiple OIDC providers, you only need a path-specific check to resolve a tenant ID if the `RoutingContext` does not have the `tenant-id` attribute set, for example:
```

Author: @sberyozkin, for clarity, I am marking this conversation as resolved. I have opened [a separate request](https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/pull/37584#discussion_r1447621226) asking @pedroigor for help rewriting one line.

}
----

You can define multiple tenants in your configuration file. To map them correctly when resolving a tenant from your `TenantResolver` implementation, ensure each has a unique alias.

> However, using a static tenant resolution method, such as configuring tenants in `application.properties` and resolving them with `TenantResolver`, presents limitations. This approach is incompatible with testing the endpoint with Dev Services for Keycloak. The reason is that Dev Services for Keycloak has no knowledge of how requests are mapped to individual tenants. Therefore, it cannot dynamically provide tenant-specific `quarkus.oidc.<tenant-id>.auth-server-url` values. As a result, using `%prod` prefixes with the tenant-specific URLs in `application.properties` is ineffective in tests or development mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, using a static tenant resolution method, such as configuring tenants in `application.properties` and resolving them with `TenantResolver`, presents limitations. This approach is not suitable for testing the endpoint with Dev Services for Keycloak. The reason is that Dev Services for Keycloak has no knowledge of how requests are mapped to individual tenants. Therefore, it cannot dynamically provide tenant-specific `quarkus.oidc.<tenant-id>.auth-server-url` values. As a result, using `%prod` prefixes with the tenant-specific URLs in `application.properties` is ineffective in tests or development mode.
```

`incompatible` does not seem to work well in this context

Author: Updated. Thank you!

}
----

You can define multiple tenants in your configuration file.
To map them correctly when resolving a tenant from your `TenantResolver` implementation, ensure each has a unique alias.

> However, using a static tenant resolution method, such as configuring tenants in `application.properties` and resolving them with `TenantResolver`, presents limitations.

Reviewer 2: IMHO there are too many short sentences here. I believe we don't need an intermediate `presents limitations` where we can immediately say it just does not work. Also `such as` implies there are some other static resolution techniques which is not the case, please try to optimize it

Author: Thanks for the feedback. Updated.

This approach is not suitable for testing the endpoint with Dev Services for Keycloak.

> The reason is that Dev Services for Keycloak does not understand how requests are mapped to individual tenants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
... because it does not understand how requests are mapped to individual tenants.
```
and adding it back to the prev sentence will work fine IMHO

Author: Updated. Thanks.

Therefore, it cannot dynamically provide tenant-specific `quarkus.oidc.<tenant-id>.auth-server-url` values.
As a result, using `%prod` prefixes with the tenant-specific URLs in `application.properties` is ineffective in tests or development mode.

[NOTE]
====

> When a current tenant represents an OIDC `web-app` application, the current `io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext` contains a `tenant-id` attribute by the time the custom tenant resolver has been called for all the requests completing the code authentication flow and the already authenticated requests, when either a tenant-specific state or session cookie already exists.

Author: @pedroigor, can I get your help rewriting this line so that it is easier to understand?
I can't make sense of it.
Can we break it into multiple statements?

Author: @sberyozkin I think we can enhance this line in a future PR. Closing this for now.

}
----

You can define multiple tenants in your configuration file.
To map them correctly when resolving a tenant from your `TenantResolver` implementation, ensure each has a unique alias.

However, using a static tenant resolution method, such as configuring tenants in `application.properties` and resolving them with `TenantResolver`, presents limitations.
This approach is not suitable for testing the endpoint with Dev Services for Keycloak.

> The reason is that Dev Services for Keycloak has no knowledge of how requests are mapped to individual tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dev Services for Keycloak does not understand how requests map to individual tenants.
```

Author: I'm going to preserve "has no knowledge" because "understand" is too anthropomorphic.

}
----

This is how Quarkus OIDC resolves static custom tenants if no custom `TenantResolver` is registered.

A similar technique can be used with `TenantConfigResolver` where a `tenant-id` provided in the context can return `OidcTenantConfig` already prepared with the previous request.
====

[NOTE]
====
If you also use xref:hibernate-orm.adoc#multitenancy[Hibernate ORM multitenancy] or xref:mongodb-panache.adoc#multitenancy[MongoDB with Panache multitenancy] and both tenant IDs are the same
and must be extracted from the Vert.x `RoutingContext`, you can pass the tenant ID from the OIDC Tenant Resolver to the Hibernate ORM Tenant Resolver or MongoDB with Panache Mongo Database Resolver
as a `RoutingContext` attribute, for example:

> // If you use xref:hibernate-orm.adoc#multitenancy[Hibernate ORM multitenancy] or xref:mongodb-panache.adoc#multitenancy[MongoDB with Panache multitenancy], and both tenant IDs are the same, a specific process is required. These tenant IDs must be extracted from the Vert.x `RoutingContext`. In such cases, you can facilitate communication between different systems. This is done by passing the tenant ID from the OIDC Tenant Resolver directly to either the Hibernate ORM Tenant Resolver or the MongoDB with Panache Mongo Database Resolver. The transfer is achieved using a `RoutingContext` attribute. For example:

Reviewer 2: Not sure an addition of `In such cases, you can facilitate communication between different systems`, or `a specific process is required`, or `the transfer is achieved` IMHO it complicates things a little bit, it is of course a perfect language :-), but to me at least it reads a bit formal.

> // If you use xref:hibernate-orm.adoc#multitenancy[Hibernate ORM multitenancy] or xref:mongodb-panache.adoc#multitenancy[MongoDB with Panache multitenancy], and both tenant IDs are the same, a specific process is required. These tenant IDs must be extracted from the Vert.x `RoutingContext`. In such cases, you can facilitate communication between different systems. This is done by passing the tenant ID from the OIDC Tenant Resolver directly to either the Hibernate ORM Tenant Resolver or the MongoDB with Panache Mongo Database Resolver. The transfer is achieved using a `RoutingContext` attribute. For example:

Author: Thanks, I've removed the following proposed changes:
```
// If you use xref:hibernate-orm.adoc#multitenancy[Hibernate ORM multitenancy] or xref:mongodb-panache.adoc#multitenancy[MongoDB with Panache multitenancy], and both tenant IDs are the same, a specific process is required.
// These tenant IDs must be extracted from the Vert.x `RoutingContext`.
// In such cases, you can facilitate communication between different systems.
// This is done by passing the tenant ID from the OIDC Tenant Resolver directly to either the Hibernate ORM Tenant Resolver or the MongoDB with Panache Mongo Database Resolver.
// The transfer is achieved using a `RoutingContext` attribute.
// For example:
```

> // If you use xref:hibernate-orm.adoc#multitenancy[Hibernate ORM multitenancy] or xref:mongodb-panache.adoc#multitenancy[MongoDB with Panache multitenancy], and both tenant IDs are the same, a specific process is required. These tenant IDs must be extracted from the Vert.x `RoutingContext`. In such cases, you can facilitate communication between different systems. This is done by passing the tenant ID from the OIDC Tenant Resolver directly to either the Hibernate ORM Tenant Resolver or the MongoDB with Panache Mongo Database Resolver. The transfer is achieved using a `RoutingContext` attribute. For example:

Author: If you have the time, please suggest changes to make this passage clearer.

> // If you use xref:hibernate-orm.adoc#multitenancy[Hibernate ORM multitenancy] or xref:mongodb-panache.adoc#multitenancy[MongoDB with Panache multitenancy], and both tenant IDs are the same, a specific process is required. These tenant IDs must be extracted from the Vert.x `RoutingContext`. In such cases, you can facilitate communication between different systems. This is done by passing the tenant ID from the OIDC Tenant Resolver directly to either the Hibernate ORM Tenant Resolver or the MongoDB with Panache Mongo Database Resolver. The transfer is achieved using a `RoutingContext` attribute. For example:

Author: I believe this conversation has been resolved.

}
----

This is how Quarkus OIDC resolves static custom tenants if no custom `TenantResolver` is registered.

A similar technique can be used with `TenantConfigResolver` where a `tenant-id` provided in the context can return `OidcTenantConfig` already prepared with the previous request.
====

[NOTE]
====
If you also use xref:hibernate-orm.adoc#multitenancy[Hibernate ORM multitenancy] or xref:mongodb-panache.adoc#multitenancy[MongoDB with Panache multitenancy] and both tenant IDs are the same

> and must be extracted from the Vert.x `RoutingContext`, you can pass the tenant ID from the OIDC Tenant Resolver to the Hibernate ORM Tenant Resolver or MongoDB with Panache Mongo Database Resolver

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and must be extracted from the Vert.x `RoutingContext`, you can pass the tenant id from the OIDC Tenant Resolver to the Hibernate ORM Tenant Resolver or MongoDB with Panache Mongo Database Resolver
```

As discussed earlier, lets keep capital ID to `ID token`

Author: Thanks. Fixed multiple instances.

[source,bash,subs=attributes+]
----
docker run --name keycloak -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin -p 8180:8080 quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:{keycloak.version} start-dev
----

Where `keycloak.version` is set to `23.0.0` or higher.

Access your Keycloak server at http://localhost:8180[localhost:8180].

Log in as the `admin` user to access the Keycloak administration console. The username and password are both `admin`.

Now, import the realms for the two tenants:

* Import the link:{quickstarts-tree-url}/security-openid-connect-multi-tenancy-quickstart/config/default-tenant-realm.json[default-tenant-realm.json] to create the default realm.
* Import the link:{quickstarts-tree-url}/security-openid-connect-multi-tenancy-quickstart/config/tenant-a-realm.json[tenant-a-realm.json] to create the realm for the tenant `tenant-a`.

For more information, see the Keycloak documentation about how to https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_admin/index.html#_create-realm[create a new realm].

== Running and using the application

=== Running in developer mode

To run the microservice in dev mode, use:

include::{includes}/devtools/dev.adoc[]

=== Running in JVM mode

> When you're done playing with the application in dev mode, you can run it as a standard Java application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you are done playing with the application in dev mode, you can run it as a standard Java application.
```

----
====

== Starting and configuring the Keycloak server

To start a Keycloak server, you can use Docker and run the following command:

[source,bash,subs=attributes+]
----
docker run --name keycloak -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin -p 8180:8080 quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:{keycloak.version} start-dev
----

> Where `keycloak.version` is set to `23.0.0` or higher.

Reviewer 2: IMHO `where` works better, as it continues the command. With capital `Works` the sentence looks standalone and reads unusual

Author: Updated. Thanks.

java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar
----

=== Running in native mode

This same demo can be compiled into native code; no modifications are required.

This implies that you no longer need to install a JVM on your
production environment, as the runtime technology is included in
the produced binary, and optimized to run with minimal resources.

Compilation takes a bit longer, so this step is turned off by default;
let's build again by enabling the native build:

include::{includes}/devtools/build-native.adoc[]

After a little while, you can run this binary directly:

[source,bash]
----
./target/security-openid-connect-multi-tenancy-quickstart-runner
----

== Test the application

=== Use Dev Services for Keycloak

> Using xref:security-openid-connect-dev-services.adoc[Dev Services for Keycloak] is recommended for the integration testing against Keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using xref:security-openid-connect-dev-services.adoc[Dev Services for Keycloak] is recommended for the integration testing against Keycloak.
```

}
----

For more information about how it is initialized and configured, see xref:security-openid-connect-dev-services.adoc[Dev Services for Keycloak].

=== Use the browser

To test the application, open your browser and access the following URL:

* http://localhost:8080/default[http://localhost:8080/default]

If everything works as expected, you are redirected to the Keycloak server to authenticate.
Be aware that the requested path defines a `default` tenant, which we don't have mapped in the configuration file.
In this case, the default configuration is used.

To authenticate to the application, enter the following credentials in the Keycloak login page:

* Username: `alice`
* Password: `alice`

After clicking the *Login* button, you are redirected back to the application.

If you try now to access the application at the following URL:

* http://localhost:8080/tenant-a[http://localhost:8080/tenant-a]

You are redirected again to the Keycloak login page.
However, this time, you are going to authenticate by using a different realm.

In both cases, the landing page shows the user's name and email if the user is successfully authenticated.

> Although `alice` exists in both tenants, the application treats them as distinct users in separate realms or tenants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although `alice` exists in both tenants, the application treats them as distinct users in separate realms.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

}
----

For more information about how it is initialized and configured, see xref:security-openid-connect-dev-services.adoc[Dev Services for Keycloak].

=== Use the browser

To test the application, open your browser and access the following URL:

* http://localhost:8080/default[http://localhost:8080/default]

If everything works as expected, you are redirected to the Keycloak server to authenticate.
Be aware that the requested path defines a `default` tenant, which we don't have mapped in the configuration file.
In this case, the default configuration is used.

To authenticate to the application, enter the following credentials in the Keycloak login page:

* Username: `alice`
* Password: `alice`

After clicking the *Login* button, you are redirected back to the application.

If you try now to access the application at the following URL:

* http://localhost:8080/tenant-a[http://localhost:8080/tenant-a]

> You are redirected again to the Keycloak login page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Propose to retain it as per my earlier comment.

Author: I will preserve the current phrase unchanged. Thank you both.

> However, now you are going to authenticate by using a different `realm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This time, the redirection to the Keycloak login page requires authentication using a different `realm`.
```

Reviewer 2: IMHO it  is not quite correct, `the redirection` does not require it, it is only a tool the browser uses to bring the user to the login screen

Author: Thank you. Partially updated.

* <<default-tenant-resolver>>
* <<annotations-tenant-resolver>>

> These tenant resolution options are tried in the order they are listed, until the tenant ID gets resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These tenant resolution options are tried in the order they are listed until the tenant ID gets resolved.
```

* <<default-tenant-resolver>>
* <<annotations-tenant-resolver>>

> These tenant resolution options are tried in the order they are listed until the tenant ID gets resolved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These tenant resolution options are tried in the order they are listed until the tenant id gets resolved.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> If the tenant ID remains unresolved (`null`), the default (unnamed) tenant configuration is selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the tenant id remains unresolved (`null`), the default (unnamed) tenant configuration is selected.
```

Author: Updated.

[[tenant-resolver]]

> === Resolve with TenantResolver

Reviewer 2: Sheila is highlighting such words representing classes or objects like UserInfo in her PRs, it looks OK in the highlighted form

Author: Updated. Thanks.

[[default-tenant-resolver]]
=== Default resolution

> The default resolution for a tenant identifier is convention-based, whereby the authentication request must include the tenant identifier in the last segment of the request path.

Reviewer 2: As agreed with Sheila, it works without `-` for similar forms too

Author: Updated. Thanks.

quarkus.oidc.github.authentication.redirect-path=/signed-in
----

> In this example, both tenants configure OIDC `web-app` applications to use an authorization code flow to authenticate users, and require session cookies to be generated after authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, both tenants configure OIDC `web-app` applications to use an authorization code flow to authenticate users and require session cookies to be generated after authentication.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

quarkus.oidc.github.authentication.redirect-path=/signed-in
----

In the provided example, both tenants configure OIDC `web-app` applications to use an authorization code flow to authenticate users.

> Additionally, both tenants require session cookies to be generated after authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
... and require session cookies to be generated after authentication.
```
and please add it to the prev sentence

Author: Updated. Thanks.

quarkus.http.auth.permission.login.policy=authenticated
----

If the endpoint is running on `http://localhost:8080`, you can also provide UI options for users to log in to either `http://localhost:8080/google` or `http://localhost:8080/github`, without having to add specific `/google` or `/github` JAX-RS resource paths.
Tenant identifiers are also recorded in the session cookie names after the authentication is completed.
Therefore, authenticated users can access the secured application area without requiring either the `google` or `github` path values to be included in the secured URL.

> Default resolution can also work for Bearer token authentication. Still, it might be less practical in this case because a tenant identifier must always be set as the last path segment value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default resolution can also work for Bearer token authentication. Still, it might be less practical because a tenant identifier must always be set as the last path segment value.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

Several options are available for selecting the tenant configuration that should be used to secure the current HTTP request for both `service` and `web-app` OIDC applications, such as:

- Check the URL paths. For example, a `tenant-service` configuration must be used for the `/service` paths, while a `tenant-manage` configuration must be used for the `/management` paths.
- Check the HTTP headers. For example, with a URL path always being `/service`, a header such as `Realm: service` or `Realm: management` can help to select between the `tenant-service` and `tenant-manage` configurations.
- Check the URL query parameters. It can work similarly to the way the headers are used to select the tenant configuration.

All these options can be easily implemented with the custom `TenantResolver` and `TenantConfigResolver` implementations for the OIDC `service` applications.

However, due to an HTTP redirect required to complete the code authentication flow for the OIDC `web-app` applications, a custom HTTP cookie might be needed to select the same tenant configuration before and after this redirect request because:

> - The URL path might not be the same after the redirect request if a single redirect URL has been registered in the OIDC provider. The original request path can be restored after the tenant configuration has been resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The URL path might not be the same after the redirect request if a single redirect URL has been registered in the OIDC provider.
The original request path can be restored after the tenant configuration has been resolved.
```

----

[[disable-tenant]]
== Disabling tenant configurations

Custom `TenantResolver` and `TenantConfigResolver` implementations might return `null` if no tenant can be inferred from the current request and a fallback to the default tenant configuration is required.

> If you expect the custom resolvers always to infer a tenant, you do not need to configure the default tenant resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you expect the custom resolvers to always infer a tenant, you do not need to configure the default tenant resolution.
```

----

[[disable-tenant]]
== Disabling tenant configurations

Custom `TenantResolver` and `TenantConfigResolver` implementations might return `null` if no tenant can be inferred from the current request and a fallback to the default tenant configuration is required.

> If you expect the custom resolvers to always infer a tenant, you do not need to configure the default tenant resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you expect the custom resolvers always to infer a tenant, you do not need to configure the default tenant resolution.
```

Reviewer 2: This looks fine, but I've noticed `infer` was introduced at some point, I had to do a quick Google search to make sure I know what this word means. Propose to replace it with `resolve`, there is some concrete check as opposed to some deduction logic here, `resolve` is a typical term in this context

Author: Updated to use "resolve" rather than "infer". Preserving the current word order, "to always".
